Ms. Sanders: Good afternoon,
welcome back.
Today, the President
and First Lady
welcome President
Emmanuel Macron
and Mrs. Macron
to the White House,
beginning the first state visit
for the Trump administration.
This visit will celebrate
the long and enduring friendship
between France
and the U.S.
Discussions will include
economic, diplomatic,
and global issues.
The First Lady has taken
an active role
in every detail
and planning of the visit,
including the state dinner,
which will be held
tomorrow evening.
And we're looking forward to
a very successful state visit.
As you all saw, we now have
three Democrat senators
who have announced they will
vote to confirm Mike Pompeo,
President Trump's
highly qualified nominee
for Secretary of State.
However, a majority of Democrats
continue their
pointless obstruction
to score cheap political
points with their base
as a willful attempt to
undermine American diplomacy.
Regardless, the President
is looking forward
to Mike Pompeo's confirmation,
so he can continue
doing an incredible job
on behalf of
the American people.
I also want to commend the
heroic actions of James Shaw Jr.
early Sunday morning
at a Waffle House in Tennessee.
Mr. Shaw saved lives
when he wrestled a gun
from an active shooter
who had opened fire.
The President offers
his condolences
to the victims
and their families.
He is monitoring
the ongoing situation
and the White House
is in regular contact
with state and local officials.
Finally, I want
to congratulate the Duke
and Duchess of Cambridge
on the birth of their
third child, a baby boy.
And from one mother to another,
I know the reality of being
outnumbered can be very scary,
but I know she
and Prince William
will continue to be
amazing parents.
So congratulations to them.
And with that,
I'll take your questions.
Jonathan.
The Press:  Sarah,
on North Korea:
Is the President willing
to accept anything
short of complete
denuclearization
before lifting any sanctions?
Ms. Sanders:  Certainly,
the goal is denuclearization
of the Peninsula,
and we're going to continue
the maximum pressure campaign
that has been ongoing
to North Korea
until we see concrete actions
taken towards complete
and total denuclearization.
The Press:  But does that mean
no sanctions lifted
until that's achieved?
Are you willing to
go incrementally?
Ms. Sanders:  Certainly,
no sanctions lifted
until we see concrete actions
taken by North Korea
to denuclearize
The Press:  When the President
said in his tweet
that they had agreed
to denuclearize,
where did they do that?
Have they already
agreed to do that?
Ms. Sanders:  Certainly, in a
number of the conversations,
including the comments,
I'd refer you back to also
South Korean President Moon,
who has said that North Korea
has expressed a will
for complete denuclearization.
And certainly,
that's the focus
of any conversation
and negotiation
that the United States
will have with North Korea.
Steve.
The Press:  Sarah,
to what extent will
the Iran nuclear deal
come up in the conversation
between the President
and President Macron?
And what does President Trump
want to hear from Macron
on this thing?
Ms. Sanders: Look, I'm not
going to get ahead
of any conversations
that we expect to take place
over the next couple of days.
As you know, they just
landed a few minutes ago,
and haven't even arrived
here at the White House.
I'm not going to presume
what those conversations
will look like.
We certainly expect
that that will be part
of the conversation,
and we'll keep you posted
if we have any specific details
to put out about that.
The Press:  And is the President
still leaning
towards decertifying the deal
when it comes up
again on May 12th?
Ms. Sanders: I don't have any
announcements on that front,
but the President has
been extremely clear
that he thinks
it's a bad deal.
That certainly
has not changed.
Jim.
The Press:  Wanted to
ask you a question,
sort of following up on what
you were asked this morning
about Michael Cohen.
It was noticed by some that you
didn't close the door one way
or the other on the President
pardoning Michael Cohen.
What is your read
on that right now?
Ms. Sanders: It's hard to close
a door on something
that hasn't taken place.
I don't like to
discuss or comment
on hypothetical situations
that may or may
not ever happen.
I would refer you to
personal attorneys to comment
on anything specific
regarding that case,
but we don't have
anything at this point.
The Press:  And can I just
ask you about a tweet
that the President
put out last week?
He tweeted a lot
over the weekend.
But last week, he said --
he was talking about sanctuary
cities in California and saying,
There is a Revolution
going on in California.
Soooo many Sanctuary areas
want OUT of this ridiculous,
crime infested &
breeding concept.
We haven't had a chance
to ask you about that tweet.
When he used
the word  breeding,
was he making a derogatory term
about Latinos in California --
that they breed a lot or that
they're prone to breeding?
Was he talking about --
Ms. Sanders: No, he's talking
about the problem itself
growing and getting bigger.
The Press:  What does
that mean though?
Ms. Sanders: Sorry,
I've answered a couple.
Justin, go ahead.
The Press:  I also wanted
to follow up on a couple
of the President's tweets.
The first was earlier
this morning.
I'm wondering
if you could explain
the President's tweet
that he had ordered
DHS not to allow large caravans
of individuals into the country.
So, if you can say both
what specifically he ordered
DHS to do, and what
that would mean for individuals
claiming refugee status
within the United States.
Ms. Sanders:  Look, the
President continues to monitor
the ongoing situation.
A sovereign nation that
cannot defend its borders
will no longer be
a sovereign nation.
The Trump administration
is committed
to enforcing
our immigration laws,
whether people are part
of the caravan or not.
If you enter the United States
illegally, let me be clear --
you've broken the law,
and we will enforce
the law through prosecution
of illegal borders.
While we are committed
to doing everything we can
on the border
to secure our nation,
we need Congress to do
their job as well,
and to pass legislation
to close the legal loopholes
and prevent us from
securing our borders
and protecting Americans.
The Press:  And then
in the other tweet
that the President
did over the weekend,
he said that he didn't see
Michael Cohen flipping
to get out of trouble
with the government.
I guess that prompts
two questions.
The first is, what the President
believes his personal attorney
might have done to get him
in trouble with the government.
And secondly, what
the President has done
that he is worried
Michael Cohen could flip about.
Ms. Sanders:  The President
has been clear
that he hasn't done
anything wrong.
I think we've stated that
about a thousand times.
Beyond that, I don't
have anything to add
beyond the President's tweet.
Matthew.
The Press:  Thanks, Sarah.
There have been a number
of documented cases
in the press recently of
EPA Administrator Pruitt
at least appearing
to be dishonest
about requesting
raises for aides,
about his relationship
with a lobbyist
who had business
before the EPA (inaudible).
Is the White House concerned
at all about this pattern?
And is there concern about him
testifying before
Congress on Thursday,
as scheduled, where these issues
are probably going to come up?
Ms. Sanders: We're continuing
to review a number
of the reports
that you mentioned,
and we'll let you know if we
have any changes on that front.
Ashley.
The Press:  Sarah,
President Macron is hoping
that a proposed side deal
between the U.S.
and European powers
could strengthen
the Iran deal enough
that President Trump would
feel comfortable staying in it.
So, is that sort of
a fool's errand?
And the President has said
it's a bad deal.
Does he believe there's anything
that could be done to fix it
in a way he'd be
comfortable with?
Ms. Sanders: Again, I'm not
going to get ahead of
any potential conversations
that are going to take place
over the next couple of days.
But as the administration
has policy announcements,
we'll be sure to
share them with you.
Mara.
The Press: Thank you, Sarah.
Just to go back to Jonathan's
question about North Korea,
the President tweeted
pretty flatly,
&they have agreed
to denuclearization.
And then, you're saying
that they just agreed
to talk about it.
What is
the President's definition
of complete denuclearization?
Ms. Sanders: Again, I'm not
going to negotiate
with you guys.
I'm going to leave that
to the President and Kim Jong-un
to walk through what some of
those details would look like
when that meeting takes place.
But I can be very clear
that we expect it not
to just be mentioned in words,
but there have to be
concrete actions that take place
towards total denuclearization
of the Peninsula.
The Press:  Does that mean
removing all nukes --
our nukes and theirs?
Ms. Sanders: Again, I'm not
going to get into
the negotiations
of what will take place and what
the agreement will look like.
But there have to be
concrete actions
that stop the denuclearization
of the Peninsula.
The Press:  Sarah,
President Macron appears to have
a very robust agenda
coming to Washington.
He wants to change
the President's mind
on a lot of different things --
on the Iran nuclear deal,
on keeping U.S. troops
in Syria, on tariffs,
and maybe even on
the Paris Climate Accord.
Does he have an open mind?
Is it possible that
he will change his mind
after President Macron
gets through with him?
Ms. Sanders:  I think that
I feel very confident
that we have the best
negotiator at the table.
Look, you have two leaders
that have an incredibly good --
The Press: So, there's
a great negotiator
and not-such-a-great negotiator.
Ms. Sanders: Hold on,
let me finish, let me finish.
That's not what I said.
I said that we have a great
negotiator at the table.
I certainly was not commenting
on President Macron's abilities;
simply stating the obvious,
that we have an incredibly
good negotiator
at the table
for the United States.
But what you do have
are two leaders
who have a great deal
of respect for one another,
who have a great friendship.
Certainly, both have
a great deal of interest
in doing what is best
for their country
but being able to have very open
and candid conversations
because of the relationship
not only that
the leaders have built,
but that has existed
between the two countries
long before either
of these individuals
arrived on the scene.
And we're going to continue
that relationship.
But I think we can expect this
to be a very productive
and very positive state
visit for both countries.
The Press:  Positive for France?
Ms. Sanders:  I said
for both countries.
The Press:  Could the President
change his mind
on some of these things?
Ms. Sanders: Again, I'm not
going to get ahead
of conversations
that are going to take place.
But as we have any
policy announcements,
I'm sure you guys
will be the first to know.
The Press:  His mind is open?
Ms. Sanders:  Again,
the President wants to make
good deals for this country.
And if he feels like
he can make a good deal
that benefits this country,
he certainly is going to engage
in those conversations.
Peter.
The Press:  Sarah, why should
North Korea believe
that the U.S.
is an honest broker,
when the President
has said publicly
that he would like to get
out of the deal the U.S.
and others made with Iran?
Ms. Sanders:  Look,
the President has been clear
from day one that he thinks
that's a bad deal.
I don't think any deal
that he would sign and agree
to he would consider a bad deal.
The President wants to do
what is in the best interest --
The Press:  So, he would never
backtrack on this deal?
Ms. Sanders:  The President
wants to do what is in the best
interest of our country
and even in the world.
And particularly
having North Korea
and the Korean Peninsula
free of nuclear weapons,
I think, is a good thing
for everybody,
and I think even you
would be hard-pressed
to find something different.
The Press:  Sarah,
beyond what you said about --
Ms. Sanders: Sorry, Peter,
I've got tight time
and I'm going to keep moving.
Steve.
The Press:  Yeah, Sarah,
I just want to follow up on that
about North Korea.
I'm wondering,
what gives you any optimism
that the North Koreans are
really looking to denuclearize?
Because of the statements
that they're making,
everybody seems to be jumping
on the very positive
aspects of the statements.
But they were also saying
over the weekend
that their completion
of the nuclear arsenal,
which they call their
powerful treasured sword,
firmly guarantees forever
the country's security
and well-being.
That doesn't sound like any
wiggle room on denuclearization.
Ms. Sanders: Certainly,
we're not going to make mistakes
from previous administrations,
and we're not going
to take the North Koreans
simply at their word.
Like I said before and we've
said many times before,
the maximum pressure campaign
is going to continue
until we see concrete
actions taken by --
look, we're not naïve
in this process.
We've seen some steps
in the right direction.
But we have a long way to go.
We also have seen a major change
in what has taken
place in the past
by having our allies and
partners in the region step up
and do much more
than they have in the past.
China has taken
a more active role
in putting pressure
on North Korea.
They can certainly do more --
we hope they will --
and will continue
working with us.
And that's all at the direction
and because of the relationship
that the President has built
with President Xi of China.
Yamiche.
The Press:  I have two
quick questions.
The first one is,
that the New York Times
and others reported
that federal prosecutors
have recommended charges against
the New York police officer
involved in Eric Garner's death.
But the Justice Department
has expressed
some strong reservations.
Where do things stand
with the case of Eric Garner,
and when does
the Justice Department --
when are they going
to make a decision
about the police officer
and whether or not
they're going to charge him?
Ms. Sanders: I don't have
an administration update
on that front
but would refer you
to the Department of Justice
to get further details.
And I'll work on getting an
update for you and let you know.
The Press:  And the second
question I have
is the President tweeted --
The Press:  Can you let
all of us know?
Ms. Sanders: Sure. Usually when
we let one, it's kind of a --
it's not exactly a secret.
But, yeah, I'd be happy
to share that with everybody.
The Press:  The second question
is the President tweeted,
James Comey illegally
classified documents
to press in order --
leaked documents to press
[in order] to generate
a Special Council?
Therefore, the Special Council
was established
based on an illegal act?
Really, does everyone know
what that means?
What does the President
think that means?
And is he indicating that the
Special Counsel should be fired
because of the way
that it was begun?
Ms. Sanders: As we've said
many times before,
we have no intention of
firing the Special Counsel.
We've been beyond
cooperative with them.
We're continuing
to cooperate with them.
Turned over nearly --
over a million pages
and documents
to the Special Counsel
and have been cooperative.
The Press:  So,
what does it mean?
Ms. Sanders:  Exactly what
the President has been
saying all along --
The Press:  Yeah,
but the question that he posed?
Ms. Sanders:  -- that this was
a false premise
that this entire thing
started on.
We continue to repeat
that we think that the idea
that the Trump campaign
was involved in any collusion
with Russia
is a total witch hunt.
Our position on that
has been very clear
since the beginning
of this process,
and the President is echoing
exactly what that position is.
Jon.
The Press: Thanks a lot, Sarah,
over the weekend,
a fourth House Republican
called for the EPA Administrator
Scott Pruitt to step down.
He said he's the wrong
fit for the EPA.
What's your reaction to that?
Ms. Sanders: Again,
we're reviewing
some of those allegations.
However, Administrator
Pruitt has done a good job
of implementing
the President's policies,
particularly on deregulation;
making the United States
less energy-dependent
and becoming more
energy independent.
Those are good things.
However, the other things
certainly are something
that we're monitoring
and looking at
and I'll keep you posted.
The Press:  Last week,
Andrew Wheeler
was confirmed by the Senate.
He is Scott Pruitt's
deputy at the EPA.
Couldn't he easily implement
all of the President's agenda
if Scott Pruitt stepped aside?
He wouldn't have a dark cloud
hanging over the agency.
What's your view on that idea?
Ms. Sanders: We're very excited
that the Democrats
have finally allowed another one
of our nominees to go through.
We hope that they'll allow some
of the other several hundred
that sit waiting
to be confirmed --
very highly qualified
individuals --
we hope that they'll continue to
follow in the footsteps of that
and get a lot more people within
this administration working.
Blake.
The Press: Thank you, Sarah,
on the Iran nuclear deal,
President Macron
said don't leave
if there's not a better option,
and then the Iranian
Foreign Minister tweeted today,
President Macron is correct
in saying there's no "Plan B"
It's either all or nothing.
So, my question to you is,
does the White House believe
that there is actually
a realistic
"Plan B" out there?
Ms. Sanders:  We certainly think
that there should be
a better deal,
one that actually
is positive, that works.
And we don't really typically
look to the leadership in Iran
to determine what
our foreign policy is.
The Press:  And then later
today, on Mike Pompeo --
Ms. Sanders: Sorry, I'm going
to keep moving
just because we're
running out of time.
John.
The Press:  Thank you, Sarah.
You may not be willing
to be specific
about the matters that President
Trump and President Macron
will negotiate on,
but the French Finance
Minister Bruno Le Maire
was very specific
at the World Bank
and IMF spring meeting.
He said on Friday,
the French will insist on,
and I quote, "a full
and permanent exemption,"
of any trade tariffs
the United States
might want to impose on France.
He went on to say that if they
are going to be a partner
in dealing with China
and other countries,
they cannot have,
what he called,
a  sword of Damocles
hanging over them.
That's pretty strong language.
Is trade and a permanent
exemption --
Ms. Sanders:  We can at
least agree on that.
(Laughter.)
The Press:  Is it on the table
as Minister Le Maire wishes?
Ms. Sanders:  Again, we
certainly expect this to come up
in conversations
over the next two days.
When we have any
policy announcements,
we will absolutely
let you know.
Kevin.
The Press: Thank you, Sarah,
two quick ones, one on Syria:
Is it fair to say the President
agrees with the French President
that a precipitous or too-quick
removal of America's
presence from Syria
would be a danger or damaging
to the Syrian people?
And if there is agreement there,
is there a possibility
that the two will come
to some sort of
a formal announcement
during his time here?
And a follow on Mike Pompeo,
what would be
the number one issue
that the President would like
him to tackle assuming that,
as expected,
he is approved today?
Ms. Sanders: First, I'll talk
about the Syria question.
Again, certainly something
that will come up.
The President is committed
to defeating ISIS.
That is our primary goal
and function
and of being there.
We want to see that happen.
The President also wants
to see the partners
in the region
step up and do more,
both militarily
and financially.
And that's going to be something
that I can imagine
will be raised,
and we'll keep you
posted on that front.
When it comes to
Director Pompeo,
it is absolutely outrageous
that he would not
move through quickly.
He is extremely qualified
for the position.
The Washington Post,
a number of other outlets
that certainly aren't typically
the biggest advocates
of this President,
have said confirm him already.
I think you have to
look back at history,
specifically to Secretary
of State confirmations
and bipartisan votes.
John Kerry was confirmed 94-3.
Hillary Clinton
was confirmed 94-2.
Condoleezza Rice
was confirmed 85-13.
Colin Powell was confirmed
unanimously by voice vote.
I think that if you even look
at some of the questioning
that has been brought up
by the Senate,
no one doubts
Pompeo's qualifications
and his ability
to do the job.
So, I think that not only
is the White House
but all of America should
be calling on the Senate
to actually do their job,
do what they are required
and expected to do.
And that is to help
government function
and to help on the safety
and the security of our country.
This is an incredibly
important position.
And that plays
a big role in that
and they should certainly
support Mike Pompeo
and get that done
and get that done today.
And I think, frankly, for
particular members of Congress,
that it's very hard
for them to justify
voting in favor of someone
like John Kerry
and not following suit and
voting in favor of Mike Pompeo.
Richard.
The Press:  Just on Pompeo,
does the President
consider Republicans
who oppose Pompeo's nomination
to be obstructionist?
And separately, what does it say
to the rest of the world
if Pompeo can't get
a favorable recommendation
out of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee?
Ms. Sanders: Certainly,
don't think that those members
are being helpful.
And I think what
it says to the world
is what we've been
saying for a long time,
is the Senate has got
some real problems
and they need to figure out
how to actually show up
and do their job
a little bit better.
Mike.
The Press:  A couple of --
one on NAFTA and Iran.
On NAFTA, has the administration
decided whether to bring --
renegotiate the deal
back to Congress?
Is there a chance
that those changes
won't need
congressional approval?
And just about Iran,
that deal has been
being looked at
by a team
that was appointed by --
Ms. Sanders:  Let me
address NAFTA first.
On NAFTA, those conversations
and negotiations are ongoing.
I don't have any updates
for you on that front
beyond what we've already said.
The Press: The President's Iran
team was mostly put in place
by McMaster and Tillerson.
Does the President still have
confidence in that team?
Has he been briefed on
their developments lately?
And does he and John
Bolton support
where they're at right now?
Ms. Sanders:  Absolutely.
The President has got
a great deal of confidence
in a number of members
across the board
that remain part of his team --
his national security team.
Great group of people.
And the President has been
working very closely with them.
And most of those individuals
have been on and part
of the administration
for some time.
April.
The Press: Sarah, a couple
questions, two questions.
Going back to the issue
of Eric Garner:
A couple weeks ago,
when I asked you about
Alton Sterling, Stephon Clark,
and the issue of Eric Garner,
you said it was a local issue.
Does this White House
give the directive now
to the Justice Department
that it's a local matter
and that's why it kind
of been held up?
Is that what's going on now
with this Eric Garner case?
Ms. Sanders: I can't speak
to anything specific
in an ongoing process
that is taking place with
the Department of Justice,
but we haven't given
specific instruction to them
other than to follow the law.
And when it is a local issue,
there is not a lot we can do.
But when the Department
of Justice has a role to play,
we want them to be independent
and follow the law
on that front.
The Press:  And last thing,
I want to follow up on Jim.
What you said --  breeding.
The President was very clear at
his statement about this issue.
He said, in a tweet,
"There is a Revolution
going on in California.
So many Sanctuary areas
want OUT of this ridiculous,
crime infested &
breeding concept."
What did he mean by "breeding?"
Ms. Sanders:  Again,
the President has recognized
that this is a major problem,
and a lot of people,
even in California,
want to see the issue
of sanctuary cities addressed.
And the President is doing
what he can to do that.
The Press: But what does
"breeding" mean?
What does "breeding"
mean to this President?
Because when you
think of breeding,
you think of animals
breeding -- populating.
Ms. Sanders: I'm not going to
begin to think what you think --
The Press:  But can you tell us
what the President thought?
Ms. Sanders:  Certainly,
I think that it can mean
a lot of things
to a lot of people.
But the President is talking
about a growing problem.
And I addressed that with Jim,
and I don't have
anything else to add.
Lalit.
The Press: Thank you, I wanted
to ask you about Afghanistan.
There have been quite
a number of attacks
in Afghanistan
the last few days.
This is the first
fighting season after President
announced his official policy.
How do you see the situation
in Afghanistan now?
Ms. Sanders: I'm sorry,
what was the last part
of your question?
The Press:  How do you see the
situation in Afghanistan now?
Ms. Sanders: We're continuing
to move forward
with the strategy
that was announced,
and I don't have any
other policy announcements
at this time.
I'll take one last question.
Brian.
The Press: Thank you very much,
two quick questions.
One, just to define
what the President
meant about  breeding.
To be specific, he's not talking
about people having babies, yes?
The Press: He's not?
Ms. Sanders: Not that
I'm aware of.
I'd have to ask him
to dig into that deeper.
The Press: But how do you know
he's not talking about that?
Ms. Sanders: I just said,
"Not that I'm aware of."
And I would have to ask him
to be more specific.
The Press: Okay, and in regards
to the Mueller investigation --
Ms. Sanders: Guys, I'm sorry.
I'm trying to hear Brian.
The Press:  In regards to
the Mueller investigation,
I understand this administration
says that there's no collusion.
So, if we take the President
at his word,
he can't be aware of everything
that went on underneath him
by everyone who works for him.
So, if there's someone who
worked for him underneath him
that is guilty or is prosecuted
by the Mueller team,
would he not support those
who did wrong,
even if he was unaware of it?
Ms. Sanders:  Certainly, we want
everyone to follow the law.
But I'm not going to comment
on a -- once again,
a hypothetical situation.
The President has been
clear he and his campaign
were not involved in collusion.
If he had, I'm pretty sure --
The Press: I'm not
asking about that.
Ms. Sanders: Okay, you guys
would have found that out.
The Press: I'm asking about
those who work beneath him.
Ms. Sanders: And
I'm addressing that, Brian --
The Press:  But he would
support -- right,
he would support
the prosecution of --
Ms. Sanders:  The President
would absolutely support the law
and individuals
following the law.
What the President
doesn't support is a year
wasted distracting the world
and the country
from the great things
that are happening
in this country,
from talking about issues that
Americans actually care about.
That's what the President
would probably
tell you to stay focused on.
And with that, thanks, guys,
we'll see you tomorrow.